# Limbs Safety Switches Feasibility Study

---  

## Environment Analysis
At this point in history, start of the 21st century, as new and soon to be released industrial production machinery models equipped with electronic smart interconnected controls make their way into the market, a big proportion of the machines currently in use in small and medium sized industries (even more in "third world countries") are still fully electro-mechanical devices with simple -mostly non existent- personal security enforcement and production information or control of any kind. The idea of providing those machines with an appropriate security mechanisms for the operators is relevant as great part of their active production mechanisms are not much different from last generation's machines, so extending their productive life while setting them to the required security levels expected in nowadays machines is a cost effective, investment wise alternative to changing every machine to new models.  

That benefit is technologically achievable at a reasonable low cost with the use of electronic smart controls to guarantee that target security level. 

But that's just the starting point for a deeper path into production modernization.  

Once the physical security of the operator is ensured, having a programmable device installed and connected to the actionable mechanisms of the machine opens the door to the multiple benefits the modern controlled machines offer: production control and improvement, time and energy use optimization, machine failure prediction and detection, data generation for analysis locally or remotely, in real-time or deferred mode, done by the use of IoT technologies. As was stated: **once the programmable device is properly installed and connected**.  

Being the technical diversity and mechanical construction variety of the machines involved so extensive, not all of them will have the same possibilities to incorporate the required devices to achieve all the functionalities with the same ease.  

With all those factors considered, the requirements for a solution will have to take a minimalistic basic approach, a solution conceived for being extended, modified and adapted as technically and physically possible.  

The addition of smart electronic solutions for the information generation, gathering and transmission is an ***economic, practical, achievable solution*** for lowering operating costs, by avoiding operating personal accidents, energy consumption reductions, parts and mechanism wearing lowering extending the machine service lifetime, time between services, improving their productivity levels, and shortening the return of investment time from each of the factors just named.  

---

## Related Definitions:

### Industrial mechanical production cycle machines and devices:
Are machines that perform a series of mechanical operations in a repeating sequence: the **Production Cycle**. The machine's mechanical power source (usually electric motor) is activated in advance and a coupling mechanism release -trigger- starts a sequence of actions for the production that ends with the machine in the same state and position it started from, usually involving a mechanical detaching mechanism. Many of these machines have no way of stopping it's production cycle before reaching the end/restart point.

---

### Limbs Safety Switch
A limbs safety switch is a device that ensures that the machine operator's hands and feet are away from the dangerous zones of the operated machine. While that condition is not satisfied the machine production cycle can not be started. As described in the **Environment Analysis**, the diverse characteristics of these machines imply that some of them are dangerous for several combinations of limbs, and the **flexible production machine** characteristic of some of them make them a risk source for different limbs depending on the configuration being used for certain operations, and for other limbs when the configuration is changed.  

This characteristics imply that a effective technical solution must include a configuration option to modify the "limbs away detection sensors" needed to activate the production cycle.  

---

### Emergency signal:
The emergency signal is an internal or external generated notification of a malfunction, anomaly or exception state of the machine. Depending on the characteristics of the machine, as previously stated, the production cycle might be -or not- interrupted in the event of an **Emergency signal**.  
- Internal Emergency Signal: Is generated by the machine by the detection of an anomaly in de production cycle by sensors included or added to it's mechanisms.
- External Emergency Signal: Is generated by the operator, another person or an independent device.  

In the case of uninterruptible cycle machines the only granted "Emergency signal response" possible action sequence would be:
- Signal de Emergency and enter the Emergency state of the machine
- Block the future execution of new production cycles
- Keep the Emergency state including the production cycle blockage until a higher level operator -a Supervisor- clears the Emergency state unblocking the machine use.  

For other kind of cycle machines different policies might be applied to avoid as many damages the emergency situation might produce as possible.

##  Conclusion
The development of a technological solution for the safe activation of Production Cycle industrial machines and devices is reasonable, from the operator health and security point of view, from the short term economic point of view, in the long term economic point of view and in the production planification, cost analisys and equipment use optimization point of view.

